Add initial SBOM docs (#14516)
docker/docker.github.io: engine/sbom/index.md

---

> title: Viewing the SBOM for Docker images

Reviewer: Perhaps

```suggestion
title: View the SBOM for Docker images
```

Or should it be;

```suggestion
title: Generate the SBOM for Docker images
```

(should it be "image" instead of "Docker image"?)

description: Viewing the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) for Docker images

> keywords: Docker, sbon, Anchore, images, Syft, security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keywords: Docker, sbom, Anchore, images, Syft, security
```

toc_min: 1
toc_max: 2
---

> A Software Bill Of Materials (SBOM) is analogous to a packing list for a shipment; it’s all the components that make up the software, or were used to build it. For container images this includes the operating system packages that are installed (e.g.: ca-certificates) along with language specific packages that the software depends on (e.g.: log4j). The SBOM could include only some of this information or even more details, like the versions of components and where they came from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Software Bill Of Materials (SBOM) is analogous to a packing list for a shipment; it’s all the components that make up the software, or were used to build it. For container images this includes the operating system packages that are installed (e.g., ca-certificates) along with language-specific packages that the software depends on (e.g., log4j). An SBOM can include only some of this information or even more details, like the versions of components and where they came from.
```

> A Software Bill Of Materials (SBOM) is analogous to a packing list for a shipment; it’s all the components that make up the software, or were used to build it. For container images this includes the operating system packages that are installed (e.g.: ca-certificates) along with language specific packages that the software depends on (e.g.: log4j). The SBOM could include only some of this information or even more details, like the versions of components and where they came from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Software Bill Of Materials (SBOM) is analogous to a packing list for a shipment. It lists all the components that make up the software, or were used to build it. For container images, this includes the operating system packages that are installed (for example, ca-certificates) along with language-specific packages that the software depends on (for example, Log4j). The SBOM could include a subset of this information or even more details, like the versions of components and their source.
```

> > :warning: *Note:* This command is considered _experimental_ and may change or be removed in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Warning**
>
> The `SBOM` command is currently experimental. This may change or be removed from future releases.
{: .warning }
```

> > Please leave feedback and report issues on [its repository](https://github.com/docker/sbom-cli-plugin).

Reviewer 2: Suggest we add a section heading `## Feedback` and move this to the end of the topic.

```
## Feedback

Thanks for trying the Docker SBOM CLI plugin. We’d love to hear from you. You can provide feedback and report any bugs through the Issues tracker in the [docker/[sbom-cli-plugin](https://github.com/docker/sbom-cli-plugin){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository.

> The experimental `docker sbom` command allows you to view the SBOM of a container image. Today, it does this today by scanning the layers of the image using the [Syft project](https://github.com/anchore/syft) but in future it may read the SBOM from the image itself or elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The experimental `docker sbom` command allows you to generate the SBOM of a container image. Today, it does this by scanning the layers of the image using the [Syft project](https://github.com/anchore/syft) but in future it may read the SBOM from the image itself or elsewhere.
```

A bit on the fence how much "in future" we should go into (if it's worth mentioning at all)

Reviewer 2: Agree. Suggest we don't include forward-looking statements in Docs.

Reviewer 2: Can we please add `{: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}` for external URLs so they open in a new tab? Thanks

## Simple use

> To output a tabulated SBOM for an image simply run `docker sbom <image>:<tag>`:

Reviewer: Avoid "simply";

```suggestion
To output a tabulated SBOM for an image,  use `docker sbom <image>:<tag>`:
```

Or (active)

```suggestion
Use the `docker sbom <image>:<tag>` command to output a tabulated SBOM for an image
```

```console
$ docker sbom neo4j:4.4.5
Syft v0.43.0
 ✔ Loaded image            
 ✔ Parsed image            
 ✔ Cataloged packages      [385 packages]

NAME                      VERSION                        TYPE
... 
bsdutils                  1:2.36.1-8+deb11u1             deb
ca-certificates           20210119                       deb
...
log4j-api                 2.17.1                         java-archive  
log4j-core                2.17.1                         java-archive  
...
```

Note that the output includes not only system packages but also software libraries used by applications in the container image.

## Output formatting and saving outputs

> You can output the SBOM in standard formats like [SPDX](https://spdx.dev) and [CycloneDX](https://cyclonedx.org) along with the Syft and GitHub formats using the `--format` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can view the SBOM output in standard formats like [SPDX](https://spdx.dev){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} and [CycloneDX](https://cyclonedx.org){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} along with the Syft and GitHub formats using the `--format` option.
```

```console
$ docker sbom --format spdx-json alpine:3.15
{
 "SPDXID": "SPDXRef-DOCUMENT",
 "name": "alpine-3.15",
 "spdxVersion": "SPDX-2.2",
 "creationInfo": {
  "created": "2022-04-06T21:13:32.035571Z",
  "creators": [
   "Organization: Anchore, Inc",
   "Tool: syft-[not provided]"
  ],
  "licenseListVersion": "3.16"
 },
 "dataLicense": "CC0-1.0",
 "documentNamespace": "https://anchore.com/syft/image/alpine-3.15-4b1b99d8-bbb5-4426-af8e-c510189134ab",
 "packages": [
  {
   "SPDXID": "SPDXRef-1e3f3285636676f3",
   "name": "alpine-baselayout",
   "licenseConcluded": "GPL-2.0-only",
   "description": "Alpine base dir structure and init scripts",
   "downloadLocation": "https://git.alpinelinux.org/cgit/aports/tree/main/alpine-baselayout",
   "externalRefs": [
    {
...
}
```

> You will notice that these outputs are more verbose and contain more information than the default tabulated output.

Reviewer: Try avoiding future tense; this could be;

```suggestion
These outputs are more verbose and contain more information than the default tabulated output.
```

By default, the command outputs the SBOM to stdout. You can save the output to a file by specifying one with the `--output` flag.

```console
$ docker sbom --format spdx-json --output sbom.json alpine:3.15
Syft v0.43.0
 ✔ Loaded image            
 ✔ Parsed image            
 ✔ Cataloged packages      [14 packages]

$ cat sbom.json
{
 "SPDXID": "SPDXRef-DOCUMENT",
 "name": "alpine-3.15",
 "spdxVersion": "SPDX-2.2",
...
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: nit: Add a blank line at the end of the MD file. (wasn't sure if there's one already) :)

---
title: Generate the SBOM for Docker images
description: Viewing the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) for Docker images
keywords: Docker, sbom, Anchore, images, Syft, security
toc_min: 1
toc_max: 2
---

> A Software Bill Of Materials (SBOM) is analogous to a packing list for a shipment; it’s all the components that make up the software, or were used to build it. For container images this includes the operating system packages that are installed (e.g., ca-certificates) along with language-specific packages that the software depends on (e.g., log4j). An SBOM can include only some of this information or even more details, like the versions of components and where they came from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Software Bill Of Materials (SBOM) is analogous to a packing list for a shipment. It lists all the components that make up the software, or were used to build it. For container images, this includes the operating system packages that are installed (for example, ca-certificates) along with language-specific packages that the software depends on (for example, Log4j). The SBOM could include a subset of this information or even more details, like the versions of components and their source.
```

> **Warning**
>
> The `docker sbom` command is currently experimental. This may change or be removed from future releases.
{: .warning }

> > Please leave feedback and report issues on [its repository](https://github.com/docker/sbom-cli-plugin).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

 "spdxVersion": "SPDX-2.2",
 "creationInfo": {
  "created": "2022-04-06T21:13:32.035571Z",
  "creators": [
   "Organization: Anchore, Inc",
   "Tool: syft-[not provided]"
  ],
  "licenseListVersion": "3.16"
 },
 "dataLicense": "CC0-1.0",
 "documentNamespace": "https://anchore.com/syft/image/alpine-3.15-4b1b99d8-bbb5-4426-af8e-c510189134ab",
 "packages": [
  {
   "SPDXID": "SPDXRef-1e3f3285636676f3",
   "name": "alpine-baselayout",
   "licenseConcluded": "GPL-2.0-only",
   "description": "Alpine base dir structure and init scripts",
   "downloadLocation": "https://git.alpinelinux.org/cgit/aports/tree/main/alpine-baselayout",
   "externalRefs": [
    {
...
}
```

These outputs are more verbose and contain more information than the default tabulated output.

By default, the command outputs the SBOM to stdout. You can save the output to a file by specifying one with the `--output` flag.

```console
$ docker sbom --format spdx-json --output sbom.json alpine:3.15
Syft v0.43.0
 ✔ Loaded image            
 ✔ Parsed image            
 ✔ Cataloged packages      [14 packages]

$ cat sbom.json
{
 "SPDXID": "SPDXRef-DOCUMENT",
 "name": "alpine-3.15",
 "spdxVersion": "SPDX-2.2",
...
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Feedback

Thanks for trying the Docker SBOM CLI plugin. We’d love to hear from you. You can provide feedback and report any bugs through the Issues tracker in the [docker/[sbom-cli-plugin](https://github.com/docker/sbom-cli-plugin){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} GitHub repository.
```
